---
layout: post
title: "About SVG image format"
date: 2020-10-10 
categories: HTML
tags: SVG Image
---

## What is SVG
Scalable Vector Graphics (SVG) is an XML-based vector image format for defining two-dimensional graphics, having support for interactivity and animation. 

An SVG file is a standard graphics file type used for rendering images on the internet.

SVG is vector graphic, which means it is different from raster graphic like JPG, PNG. 
PDF is vector graphic as well. SVG and PDF work in similar way.

The following code will create a image: 
```
<svg xmlns="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg" viewBox="0 0 24 24" style="width:1rem;height:1rem;fill:currentColor">
  <g data-name="Layer 2"><g data-name="external-link">
    <rect width="24" height="24" opacity="0"></rect>
    <path d="M20 11a1 1 0 0 0-1 1v6a1 1 0 0 1-1 1H6a1 1 0 0 1-1-1V6a1 1 0 0 1 1-1h6a1 1 0 0 0 0-2H6a3 3 0 0 0-3 3v12a3 3 0 0 0 3 3h12a3 3 0 0 0 3-3v-6a1 1 0 0 0-1-1z"></path>
    <path d="M16 5h1.58l-6.29 6.28a1 1 0 0 0 0 1.42 1 1 0 0 0 1.42 0L19 6.42V8a1 1 0 0 0 1 1 1 1 0 0 0 1-1V4a1 1 0 0 0-1-1h-4a1 1 0 0 0 0 2z"></path>
  </g></g>
</svg>

```
This image looks like below:

<svg xmlns="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg" viewBox="0 0 24 24" style="width:1rem;height:1rem;fill:currentColor">
  <g data-name="Layer 2"><g data-name="external-link">
    <rect width="24" height="24" opacity="0"></rect>
    <path d="M20 11a1 1 0 0 0-1 1v6a1 1 0 0 1-1 1H6a1 1 0 0 1-1-1V6a1 1 0 0 1 1-1h6a1 1 0 0 0 0-2H6a3 3 0 0 0-3 3v12a3 3 0 0 0 3 3h12a3 3 0 0 0 3-3v-6a1 1 0 0 0-1-1z"></path>
    <path d="M16 5h1.58l-6.29 6.28a1 1 0 0 0 0 1.42 1 1 0 0 0 1.42 0L19 6.42V8a1 1 0 0 0 1 1 1 1 0 0 0 1-1V4a1 1 0 0 0-1-1h-4a1 1 0 0 0 0 2z"></path>
  </g></g>
</svg>

<br>

Most browsers are designed to render, interpret, and display SVG files. To open a .svg file, launch your browser, then open the file and it will show in your browser


## SVG Features

{% include figure.html path="assets/img/Bitmap_VS_SVG.svg.png" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" %}

- SVG supports interactivity, animation, and rich graphical capabilities, making it suitable for both web and print applications. 

- SVG allows three types of graphic objects: vector graphic shapes (such as paths consisting of straight lines and curves), bitmap images, and text. 

- SVG also supports metadata, enabling better indexing, searching, and retrieval of SVG content.

- Though the SVG Specification primarily focuses on vector graphics markup language, its design includes the basic capabilities of a page description language like Adobe's PDF. 

- Despite its benefits, SVG can pose security risks if used for images, as it can host scripts or CSS, potentially leading to cross-site scripting attacks or other vulnerabilities.


## What are SVG files used for
SVG files work best for images that contain less detail than a photograph

#### Icons
Most icons translate well to vectors, given their simplicity and clearly defined borders. Icons for page elements like buttons will need to be responsive for varying screen sizes, which means they must be perfectly scalable.

#### Logos
The SVG format is particularly well suited for logos, which appear in website headers, emails, and in print on anything from pamphlets to hoodies to billboards. Again, logos tend to be simpler in design, which lends nicely to the SVG format.

#### Illustrations
Vectors also suit non-photo visual art nicely. Decorative drawings on webpages can both scale easily and conserve file space if added as SVG files. You can create the illustrations below, even the textures on some shapes, with SVGs.

#### Animations and Interface Elements
By harnessing the capabilities of CSS and JavaScript, you can set SVGs to change their appearance dynamically and to trigger automatically during or after an event. Animated SVGs can serve to add visual flair to your pages, or you can use them to engage with user interface animations

#### Animations and Interface Elements
By harnessing the capabilities of CSS and JavaScript, you can set SVGs to change their appearance dynamically and to trigger automatically during or after an event. Animated SVGs can serve to add visual flair to your pages, or you can use them to engage with user interface animations:

{% include figure.html path="assets/img/SVGDemo.gif" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" %}

## Disadvantages of SVG Files

1. Not the right format for high-quality or detailed photos.
Designers create vector graphics with points and paths, not pixels. So, you can create a vector graphic by tracing a photograph or using a converter to change your photo into an SVG. But your final image won't look exactly like your photograph.

2. Requires some knowledge of code.
SVG is an XML-based scene description language for graphics. Like HTML, SVG is great for people with some engineering know-how. 