---
layout: post
title: " OIDC Main Points "
date: 2020-08-24
categories: Auth
tags: OIDC authorization authentication
---

## What is OIDC

- OpenID Connect (OIDC) provides an authentication layer atop OAuth 2.0.
- It simplifies the way to verify the identity of users based on the authentication performed by an Authorization Server and to obtain user profile information in an interoperable and REST-like manner.
- It enables application and website developers to launch sign-in flows and receive verifiable assertions about users across Web-based, mobile, and JavaScript clients.
- Simply saying, it adds an additional token called an **ID token**.
- OpenID Connect also standardizes areas that OAuth 2.0 leaves up to choice, such as scopes, endpoint discovery, and dynamic registration of clients.
- It addresses the lack of an authentication mechanism in OAuth, which is a weakness when it comes to authorizing sensitive transactions such as payments.
- OIDC is just a special, simplified case of OAuth, not a replacement. It uses the same terminology and concepts.

## Flow

- A typical OpenID Connect workflow involves three parties, namely, the relying party (RP), the end user and the identity provider(IdP). The client, or the Relying Party, sends the end user to the identity provider, where the end user authenticates the identity and authorizes access to the client.
- The IdP sends an authorization code to the client, which then uses it to request **ID token** and uauslly access token from the IdP. Once the client gets the tokens, it is allowed it to perform an action on behalf of the end user.

## caveat

- OpenID Connect uses a signed and cryptographically verifiable JSON Web Token to ensure that the access and ID tokens are not tampered with during the exchange of information between parties.
- A client must **be registered with** the OP.
