---
layout: post
title: "SAML Main Points"
date: 2020-08-30 
categories: Auth
tags: SAML authentication authorization
---

## In Short

- Security Assertion Markup Language (SAML) 2.0 is an open standard for exchanging **authentication** and **authorization** data between parties, in particular, between an identity provider(IdP) and a service provider(SP).

- SAML focus on **SSO**: IdP-initiated SSO, SP-initiated SSO.

- SAML is an XML-based markup language for security assertions (statements that service providers use to make access-control decisions).

- SAML is built upon a number of existing standards: like, XML, XML Schema (XSD), XML Signature, XML Encryption, HTTP, SOAP.

- SAML start from Jan 2001. It is old.

## Two common usage scenarios for SAML.

- IdP-initiated SSO(this is not popular one),
- SP-initiated SSO.

# IdP-initiated SSO with SAML Authentication

In this scenario, users first log in to the IdP system, which presents an application catalog. This catalog will contain visual icons of all the internal and external applications that the company has configured SSO for and that the user has privileges to access.
When the user clicks on one of the images, the SAML flow is as follows:

1. The SAML IdP takes the user’s identity, along with any other attributes that the two sides have agreed to communicate.
2. It builds an XML-based SAML assertion.
3. It signs the assertion with the private key of a public/private keypair that was exchanged between the IdP and SP when the SSO partnership was configured.
4. It then either sends the assertion to the SP via the user’s browser or sends a reference to the assertion that the SP can use to securely retrieve the assertion.

Once the SP has received the SAML assertion, it validates the signature using the public key in order to ensure the SAML assertion really came from its trusted IdP and that none of the values in the assertion have been modified.
The SP can then extract the identity of the user from the SAML assertion along with any other attributes it needs. At this point, the user is on the service provider’s landing page, just as though they had logged into the site manually.

# SP-initiated SSO with SAML Authentication

SP-initiated SSO starts when a user tries to access a resource at the service provider, but hasn’t yet authenticated to the SP. A user may have gone directly to the website or may have saved a link to a specific resource at the SP. Once the SP sees that the user doesn’t have an active session, it will redirect them to the IdP to be authenticated. The IdP will authenticate the user, create the assertion and redirect the user back to the SP just as in the IdP-initiated use case, with the addition that it will also send back the URL of the resource that the user was initially trying to access, if it was provided by the SP.

A few common ways the SP can determine which IDP to redirect the user to are:

1. The SP may ask the user for their email address and use the domain of the email, such as bill@pingidentity.com, to determine which IdP to use.
2. The SP may display a list of IdPs it supports and ask the user to choose the appropriate one.
3. The resource URL may be specific to one IdP.
4. The SP may have placed a cookie containing IdP information in the user’s browser the first time the user successfully signed on from the IDP and will use this information on subsequent accesses.

Once the SP has received the SAML assertion, it validates the signature using the public key in order to ensure the SAML assertion really came from its trusted IdP and that none of the values in the assertion have been modified. The SP can then extract the identity of the user from the SAML assertion along with any other attributes it needs. At this point, the user is on the service provider’s landing page, just as though they had logged into the site manually.
