---
layout: post
title: "OAuth vs. OpenID"
date: 2020-08-27 
categories: Auth
tags: OAuth OpenID authorization authentication
---

- OAuth is used in access authorization while OpenID are used in user authentication.

## OAuth does have in common with OpenID

- They are open web standards.
- They both celebrate decentralisation.
- They both involve browser redirects from the website you're trying to use - the "consumer" website - to a distinct "provider" website, and back again. Meanwhile, those websites talk to each other behind the scenes to verify what just happened.
- The user can actively manage the provider website

## Mainly different as in "they let you do different things"

- OpenID gives you one login for multiple sites. Each time you need to log into Zooomr - a site using OpenID - you will be redirected to your OpenID site where you login
- OAuth lets you authorise one website - the consumer - to access your data from another website - the provider. With OAuth, you still need to log in the provider. How the provider decides you're logged in is completely orthogonal to OAuth. Maybe username, password, even maybe OpenID.

- With OpenID, there is no suggestion of two web apps sharing your data. Except some profile details. However, this is data of a generic, non-application-specific, nature.
- With OAuth, any information you hold on any website can be shared with another website. You could share your GMail with a clever consumer that automatically tags items by inspecting the content, if GMail was an OpenAuth consumer.

## Their scenario

# the scenario for OpenID:

- User wants to access his account on example.com
- example.com (the “Relying Party” in OpenID lingo) asks the user for his OpenID
- User enters his OpenID
- example.com redirects the user to his OpenID provider
- User authenticates himself to the OpenID provider
- OpenID provider redirects the user back to example.com
- example.com allows the user to access his account

# the scenario for OAuth:

- User is on example.com and wants to import his contacts from mycontacts.com
- example.com (the “Consumer” in OAuth lingo) redirects the user to mycontacts.com (the “Service Provider”)
- User authenticates himself to mycontacts.com (which can happen by using OpenID)
- mycontacts.com asks the user whether he wants to authorize example.com to access his contacts
- User makes his choice
- mycontacts.com redirects the user back to example.com
- example.com retrieves the contacts from mycontacts.com
- example.com informs the user that the import was successful
